



AI UK 2023 will be hosted at the Queen Elizabeth II Centre in Westminster, London. For the first time, our live audience will be able to discover the latest real-world applications of AI and data science in our exhibition, network with experts across the ecosystem, and access exclusive content.
Tickets to join us in-person are available for £150, and you can secure your place here. As an in-person guest, you will have access to:
The QE II centre is ideally located in the centre of London, within 5 minutes walking distance of both St James Park and Westminster tube stations. National rail stations Charing Cross and Victoria are also under a 15 minute walk from the venue, for those coming from further afield. There are several car parks within walking distance of the Centre but parking spaces are limited. Van and Car parking is available at the Q-Park Westminster, which is a 7-minute walk from the Centre. Disabled parking is available free of charge in the forecourt of QE II for those who hold a blue badge. It’s also possible to reach the venue via bicycle, with several docking stations (including for Santander cycles) available in close proximity to the venue.
The full of address for QE II is:
Queen Elizabeth II conference centre,
Broad Sanctuary,
London SW1P 3EE
With the AI UK 2023 schedule packed with unmissable sessions and opportunities, we’ve put together a range of accommodation recommendations suitable for a range of budgets, all located within walking distance of our venue. You can view the accommodation here.

© The Alan Turing Institute 2022. All rights reserved.
The Alan Turing Institute,
a charity incorporated and registered in England and Wales with company number 09512457 and
charity
number 1162533 whose registered office is at British Library, 96 Euston Road, London, England,
NW1
2DB, United Kingdom.
This site uses cookies to store information on your computer. We use cookies to improve your experience when you browse our website. For more information see our cookie notice here.
This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.
If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again.
